# Visa Bulletin For August 2013

*Number 59  
Volume IX  
Washington, D.C.*

[View as Printer Friendly PDF](https://travel.state.gov/content/dam/visas/Bulletins/visabulletin_august2013.pdf)

**A. STATUTORY NUMBERS**

1. This bulletin summarizes the availability of immigrant numbers during August. Consular officers are required to report to the Department of State documentarily qualified applicants for numerically limited visas; U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services in the Department of Homeland Security reports applicants for adjustment of status. Allocations were made, to the extent possible, in chronological order of reported priority dates, for demand received by July 8th. If not all demand could be satisfied, the category or foreign state in which demand was excessive was deemed oversubscribed. The cut-off date for an oversubscribed category is the priority date of the first applicant who could not be reached within the numerical limits. Only applicants who have a priority date earlier than the cut-off date may be allotted a number. If it becomes necessary during the monthly allocation process to retrogress a cut-off date, supplemental requests for numbers will be honored only if the priority date falls within the new cut-off date announced in this bulletin.

2. Section 201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) sets an annual minimum family-sponsored preference limit of 226,000. The worldwide level for annual employment-based preference immigrants is at least 140,000. Section 202 prescribes that the per-country limit for preference immigrants is set at 7% of the total annual family-sponsored and employment-based preference limits, i.e., 25,620. The dependent area limit is set at 2%, or 7,320.

3. INA Section 203(e) provides that family-sponsored and employment-based preference visas be issued to eligible immigrants in the order in which a petition in behalf of each has been filed. Section 203(d) provides that spouses and children of preference immigrants are entitled to the same status, and the same order of consideration, if accompanying or following to join the principal. The visa prorating provisions of Section 202(e) apply to allocations for a foreign state or dependent area when visa demand exceeds the per-country limit. These provisions apply at present to the following oversubscribed chargeability areas: CHINA-mainland born, INDIA, MEXICO, and PHILIPPINES.

4. Section 203(a) of the INA prescribes preference classes for allotment of Family-sponsored immigrant visas as follows:

**FAMILY-SPONSORED PREFERENCES**

**First**: (**F1**) Unmarried Sons and Daughters of U.S. Citizens: 23,400 plus any numbers not required for fourth preference.

**Second**: Spouses and Children, and Unmarried Sons and Daughters of Permanent Residents: 114,200, plus the number (if any) by which the worldwide family preference level exceeds 226,000, plus any unused first preference numbers:

A. (**F2A**) Spouses and Children of Permanent Residents: 77% of the overall second preference limitation, of which 75% are exempt from the per-country limit;

B. (**F2B**) Unmarried Sons and Daughters (21 years of age or older) of Permanent Residents: 23% of the overall second preference limitation.

**Third**: (**F3**) Married Sons and Daughters of U.S. Citizens: 23,400, plus any numbers not required by first and second preferences.

**Fourth**: (**F4**) Brothers and Sisters of Adult U.S. Citizens: 65,000, plus any numbers not required by first three preferences.

On the chart below, the listing of a date for any class indicates that the class is oversubscribed (see paragraph 1); "C" means current, i.e., numbers are available for all qualified applicants; and "U" means unavailable, i.e., no numbers are available. (NOTE: Numbers are available only for applicants whose priority date is **earlier** than the cut-off date listed below.)

| **Family-    Sponsored** | **All     Chargeability     Areas Except     Those Listed** | **CHINA-    mainland born** | **INDIA** | **MEXICO** | **PHILIPPINES** |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| F1                       | 01SEP06                                                     | 01SEP06                     | 01SEP06   | 01SEP93    | 01JAN01         |
| F2A                      | C                                                           | C                           | C         | C          | C               |
| F2B                      | 01DEC05                                                     | 01DEC05                     | 01DEC05   | 01FEB94    | 22DEC02         |
| F3                       | 08DEC02                                                     | 08DEC02                     | 08DEC02   | 01MAY93    | 01DEC92         |
| F4                       | 22JUN01                                                     | 22JUN01                     | 22JUN01   | 22SEP96    | 08JAN90         |

5. Section 203(b) of the INA prescribes preference classes for allotment of Employment-based immigrant visas as follows:

**EMPLOYMENT-BASED PREFERENCES**

**First:** Priority Workers: 28.6% of the worldwide employment-based preference level, plus any numbers not required for fourth and fifth preferences.

**Second:** Members of the Professions Holding Advanced Degrees or Persons of Exceptional Ability: 28.6% of the worldwide employment-based preference level, plus any numbers not required by first preference.

**Third:** Skilled Workers, Professionals, and Other Workers: 28.6% of the worldwide level, plus any numbers not required by first and second preferences, not more than 10,000 of which to "*Other Workers".

**Fourth:** Certain Special Immigrants: 7.1% of the worldwide level.

**Fifth:** Employment Creation: 7.1% of the worldwide level, not less than 3,000 of which reserved for investors in a targeted rural or high-unemployment area, and 3,000 set aside for investors in regional centers by Sec. 610 of Pub. L. 102-395.

On the chart below, the listing of a date for any class indicates that the class is oversubscribed (see paragraph 1); "C" means current, i.e., numbers are available for all qualified applicants; and "U" means unavailable, i.e., no numbers are available. (NOTE: Numbers are available only for applicants whose priority date is **earlier** than the cut-off date listed below.)

| **Employment-     Based**                                                     | **All     Chargeability     Areas Except     Those Listed** | **CHINA -     mainland born** | **INDIA** | **MEXICO** | **PHILIPPINES** |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| 1st                                                                           | C                                                           | C                             | C         | C          | C               |
| 2nd                                                                           | C                                                           | 08AUG08                       | 01JAN08   | C          | C               |
| 3rd                                                                           | 01JAN09                                                     | 01JAN09                       | 22JAN03   | 01JAN09    | 22OCT06         |
| Other Workers                                                                 | 01JAN09                                                     | 22MAR04                       | 22JAN03   | 01JAN09    | 22OCT06         |
| 4th                                                                           | C                                                           | C                             | C         | C          | C               |
| Certain Religious Workers                                                     | C                                                           | C                             | C         | C          | C               |
| 5th    Targeted    EmploymentAreas/    Regional Centers    and Pilot Programs | C                                                           | C                             | C         | C          | C               |

*Employment Third Preference Other Workers Category: Section 203(e) of the Nicaraguan and Central American Relief Act (NACARA) passed by Congress in November 1997, as amended by Section 1(e) of Pub. L. 105-139, provides that once the Employment Third Preference Other Worker (EW) cut-off date has reached the priority date of the latest EW petition approved prior to November 19, 1997, the 10,000 EW numbers available for a fiscal year are to be reduced by up to 5,000 annually beginning in the following fiscal year. This reduction is to be made for as long as necessary to offset adjustments under the NACARA program. Since the EW cut-off date reached November 19, 1997 during Fiscal Year 2001, the reduction in the EW annual limit to 5,000 began in Fiscal Year 2002.

6. The Department of State has a recorded message with visa availability information which can be heard at: (202) 663-1541. This recording is updated on or about the tenth of each month with information on cut-off dates for the following month.
