# Visa Bulletin For September 2023

*Number 81  
Volume X  
Washington, D.C*

[View as Printer Friendly PDF](https://travel.state.gov/content/dam/visas/Bulletins/visabulletin_September2023.pdf)

**A. STATUTORY NUMBERS FOR PREFERENCE IMMIGRANT VISAS**

This bulletin summarizes the availability of immigrant numbers during September for: “Final Action Dates” and “Dates for Filing Applications,” indicating when immigrant visa applicants should be notified to assemble and submit required documentation to the National Visa Center.

Unless otherwise indicated on the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website at [www.uscis.gov/visabulletininfo](http://www.uscis.gov/visabulletininfo), individuals seeking to file applications for adjustment of status with USCIS must use the “Final Action Dates” charts below for determining when they can file such applications. When USCIS determines that there are more immigrant visas available for the fiscal year than there are known applicants for such visas, USCIS will state on its website that applicants may instead use the “Dates for Filing Visa Applications” charts in this Bulletin.

1. Procedures for determining dates. Consular officers are required to report to the Department of State documentarily qualified applicants for numerically limited visas; USCIS reports applicants for adjustment of status. Allocations in the charts below were made, to the extent possible, in chronological order of reported priority dates, for demand received by August 4th. If not all demand could be satisfied, the category or foreign state in which demand was excessive was deemed oversubscribed. The final action date for an oversubscribed category is the priority date of the first applicant who could not be reached within the numerical limits. If it becomes necessary during the monthly allocation process to retrogress a final action date, supplemental requests for numbers will be honored only if the priority date falls within the new final action date announced in this bulletin. If at any time an annual limit were reached, it would be necessary to immediately make the preference category “unavailable”, and no further requests for numbers would be honored.

2. The fiscal year 2023 limit for family-sponsored preference immigrants determined in accordance with Section 201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) is 226,000. The fiscal year 2023 limit for employment-based preference immigrants calculated under INA 201 is 197,091. Section 202 prescribes that the per-country limit for preference immigrants is set at 7% of the total annual family-sponsored and employment-based preference limits, i.e., 29,616 for FY-2023. The dependent area limit is set at 2%, or 8,462.

3. INA Section 203(e) provides that family-sponsored and employment-based preference visas be issued to eligible immigrants in the order in which a petition in behalf of each has been filed. Section 203(d) provides that spouses and children of preference immigrants are entitled to the same status, and the same order of consideration, if accompanying or following to join the principal. The visa prorating provisions of Section 202(e) apply to allocations for a foreign state or dependent area when visa demand exceeds the per-country limit. These provisions apply at present to the following oversubscribed chargeability areas: CHINA-mainland born, INDIA, MEXICO, and PHILIPPINES.

4. Section 203(a) of the INA prescribes preference classes for allotment of Family-sponsored immigrant visas as follows:

**FAMILY-SPONSORED PREFERENCES**

**First**: (**F1**) Unmarried Sons and Daughters of U.S. Citizens: 23,400 plus any numbers not required for fourth preference.

**Second**: Spouses and Children, and Unmarried Sons and Daughters of Permanent Residents: 114,200, plus the number (if any) by which the worldwide family preference level exceeds 226,000, plus any unused first preference numbers:

A. (**F2A**) Spouses and Children of Permanent Residents: 77% of the overall second preference limitation, of which 75% are exempt from the per-country limit;

B. (**F2B**) Unmarried Sons and Daughters (21 years of age or older) of Permanent Residents: 23% of the overall second preference limitation.

**Third**: (**F3**) Married Sons and Daughters of U.S. Citizens: 23,400, plus any numbers not required by first and second preferences.

**Fourth**: (**F4**) Brothers and Sisters of Adult U.S. Citizens: 65,000, plus any numbers not required by first three preferences.

**A. FINAL ACTION DATES FOR FAMILY-SPONSORED PREFERENCE CASES**

On the chart below, the listing of a date for any class indicates that the class is oversubscribed (see paragraph 1); "C" means current, i.e., numbers are authorized for issuance to all qualified applicants; and "U" means unauthorized, i.e., numbers are not authorized for issuance. (NOTE: Numbers are authorized for issuance only for applicants whose priority date is **earlier** than the final action date listed below.)

| **Family-     Sponsored** | **All Chargeability      Areas Except     Those Listed** | **CHINA-mainland      born** | **INDIA** | **MEXICO** | **PHILIPPINES** |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| F1                        | 01JAN15                                                  | 01JAN15                      | 01JAN15   | 22APR01    | 01MAR12         |
| F2A                       | 01JAN18                                                  | 01JAN18                      | 01JAN18   | 01SEP16    | 01JAN18         |
| F2B                       | 22SEP15                                                  | 22SEP15                      | 22SEP15   | 01AUG01    | 22OCT11         |
| F3                        | 08JAN09                                                  | 08JAN09                      | 08JAN09   | 15JAN98    | 08JUN02         |
| F4                        | 22APR07                                                  | 22APR07                      | 15SEP05   | 01AUG00    | 22AUG02         |

For September, F2A numbers EXEMPT from per-country limit are authorized for issuance to applicants from all countries with priority dates earlier than 01SEP16. F2A numbers SUBJECT to per-country limit are authorized for issuance to applicants chargeable to all countries EXCEPT MEXICO, with priority dates beginning 01SEP16 and earlier than 01JAN18. All F2A numbers provided for MEXICO are exempt from the per-country limit.

**B. DATES FOR FILING FAMILY-SPONSORED VISA APPLICATIONS**

The chart below reflects dates for filing visa applications within a timeframe justifying immediate action in the application process. Applicants for immigrant visas who have a priority date earlier than the application date in the chart below may assemble and submit required documents to the Department of State’s National Visa Center, following receipt of notification from the National Visa Center containing detailed instructions. The application date for an oversubscribed category is the priority date of the first applicant who cannot submit documentation to the National Visa Center for an immigrant visa. If a category is designated “current,” all applicants in the relevant category may file applications, regardless of priority date.  

The “C” listing indicates that the category is current, and that applications may be filed regardless of the applicant’s priority date. The listing of a date for any category indicates that only applicants with a priority date which is **earlier** than the listed date may file their application.

Visit [www.uscis.gov/visabulletininfo](http://www.uscis.gov/visabulletininfo) for information on whether USCIS has determined that this chart can be used (in lieu of the chart in paragraph 4.A.) this month for filing applications for adjustment of status with USCIS.  

| **Family-     Sponsored** | **All Chargeability      Areas Except     Those Listed** | **CHINA-     mainland      born** | **INDIA** | **MEXICO** | **PHILIPPINES** |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| F1                        | 01SEP17                                                  | 01SEP17                           | 01SEP17   | 01APR05    | 22APR15         |
| F2A                       | 01SEP23                                                  | 01SEP23                           | 01SEP23   | 01SEP23    | 01SEP23         |
| F2B                       | 01JAN17                                                  | 01JAN17                           | 01JAN17   | 01AUG04    | 01OCT13         |
| F3                        | 01MAR10                                                  | 01MAR10                           | 01MAR10   | 15JUN01    | 08NOV03         |
| F4                        | 01MAR08                                                  | 01MAR08                           | 22FEB06   | 15APR01    | 22APR04         |

5. Section 203(b) of the INA prescribes preference classes for allotment of Employment-based immigrant visas as follows:

**EMPLOYMENT-BASED PREFERENCES**

**First**: Priority Workers: 28.6% of the worldwide employment-based preference level, plus any numbers not required for fourth and fifth preferences.

**Second**: Members of the Professions Holding Advanced Degrees or Persons of Exceptional Ability: 28.6% of the worldwide employment-based preference level, plus any numbers not required by first preference.

**Third**: Skilled Workers, Professionals, and Other Workers: 28.6% of the worldwide level, plus any numbers not required by first and second preferences, not more than 10,000 of which to "*Other Workers".

**Fourth**: Certain Special Immigrants: 7.1% of the worldwide level.

**Fifth**: Employment Creation: 7.1% of the worldwide level, of which 32% are reserved as follows: 20% reserved for qualified immigrants who invest in a rural area; 10% reserved for qualified immigrants who invest in a high unemployment area; and 2% reserved for qualified immigrants who invest in infrastructure projects. The remaining 68% are unreserved and are allotted for all other qualified immigrants.

**A. FINAL ACTION DATES FOR EMPLOYMENT-BASED PREFERENCE CASES**

On the chart below, the listing of a date for any class indicates that the class is oversubscribed (see paragraph 1); "C" means current, i.e., numbers are authorized for issuance to all qualified applicants; and "U" means unauthorized, i.e., numbers are not authorized for issuance. (NOTE: Numbers are authorized for issuance only for applicants whose priority date is **earlier** than the final action date listed below.)

| **Employment-     based**                    | **All Chargeability      Areas Except     Those Listed** | **CHINA-     mainland      born** | **INDIA** | **MEXICO** | **PHILIPPINES** |
| -------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| 1st                                          | 01AUG23                                                  | 01FEB22                           | 01JAN12   | 01AUG23    | 01AUG23         |
| 2nd                                          | 01JUL22                                                  | 08JUL19                           | 01JAN11   | 01JUL22    | 01JUL22         |
| 3rd                                          | 01MAY20                                                  | 01SEP19                           | 01JAN09   | 01MAY20    | 01MAY20         |
| Other Workers                                | 01MAY20                                                  | 01SEP15                           | 01JAN09   | 01MAY20    | 01MAY20         |
| 4th                                          | 01SEP18                                                  | 01SEP18                           | 01SEP18   | 01SEP18    | 01SEP18         |
| Certain Religious Workers                    | 01SEP18                                                  | 01SEP18                           | 01SEP18   | 01SEP18    | 01SEP18         |
| 5th Unreserved    (including C5, T5, I5, R5) | C                                                        | 08SEP15                           | 01APR17   | C          | C               |
| 5th Set Aside:    Rural (20%)                | C                                                        | C                                 | C         | C          | C               |
| 5th Set Aside:    High Unemployment (10%)    | C                                                        | C                                 | C         | C          | C               |
| 5th Set Aside:    Infrastructure (2%)        | C                                                        | C                                 | C         | C          | C               |

*Employment Third Preference Other Workers Category: Section 203(e) of the Nicaraguan and Central American Relief Act (NACARA) passed by Congress in November 1997, as amended by Section 1(e) of Pub. L. 105139, provides that once the Employment Third Preference Other Worker (EW) cut-off date has reached the priority date of the latest EW petition approved prior to November 19, 1997, the 10,000 EW numbers available for a fiscal year are to be reduced by up to 5,000 annually beginning in the following fiscal year. This reduction is to be made for as long as necessary to offset adjustments under the NACARA program. Since the EW final action date reached November 19, 1997 during Fiscal Year 2001, the reduction in the EW annual limit to 5,000 began in Fiscal Year 2002. For Fiscal Year 2023 this reduction will be limited to approximately 167.

**B. DATES FOR FILING OF EMPLOYMENT-BASED VISA APPLICATIONS**

The chart below reflects dates for filing visa applications within a timeframe justifying immediate action in the application process. Applicants for immigrant visas who have a priority date earlier than the application date in the chart may assemble and submit required documents to the Department of State’s National Visa Center, following receipt of notification from the National Visa Center containing detailed instructions. The application date for an oversubscribed category is the priority date of the first applicant who cannot submit documentation to the National Visa Center for an immigrant visa. If a category is designated “current,” all applicants in the relevant category may file, regardless of priority date.

The “C” listing indicates that the category is current, and that applications may be filed regardless of the applicant’s priority date. The listing of a date for any category indicates that only applicants with a priority date which is **earlier** than the listed date may file their application.

Visit [www.uscis.gov/visabulletininfo](http://www.uscis.gov/visabulletininfo) for information on whether USCIS has determined that this chart can be used (in lieu of the chart in paragraph 5.A.) this month for filing applications for adjustment of status with USCIS.

| **Employment-     based**                    | **All Chargeability     Areas Except     Those Listed** | **CHINA-     mainland      born** | **INDIA** | **MEXICO** | **PHILIPPINES** |
| -------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | --------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| 1st                                          | C                                                       | 01JUN22                           | 01JUN22   | C          | C               |
| 2nd                                          | 01DEC22                                                 | 08OCT19                           | 01MAY12   | 01DEC22    | 01DEC22         |
| 3rd                                          | 01MAY23                                                 | 01NOV19                           | 01AUG12   | 01MAY23    | 01MAY23         |
| Other Workers                                | 01JUN20                                                 | 01JAN16                           | 01AUG12   | 01JUN20    | 01JUN20         |
| 4th                                          | 01OCT18                                                 | 01OCT18                           | 01OCT18   | 01OCT18    | 01OCT18         |
| Certain Religious Workers                    | 01OCT18                                                 | 01OCT18                           | 01OCT18   | 01OCT18    | 01OCT18         |
| 5th Unreserved    (including C5, T5, I5, R5) | C                                                       | 01JAN16                           | 08DEC19   | C          | C               |
| 5th Set Aside:    (Rural - 20%)              | C                                                       | C                                 | C         | C          | C               |
| 5th Set Aside:    (High Unemployment - 10%)  | C                                                       | C                                 | C         | C          | C               |
| 5th Set Aside:    (Infrastructure - 2%)      | C                                                       | C                                 | C         | C          | C               |
